♪ ♪
>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SATURDA
SEPTEMBER 21st, EUROPE'S MOS
POWERFUL COUNTRY CHOOSING A NE
GOVERNMENT AND FUEL EFFICIEN
CARS COULD BE GOOD FOR THE
ENVIRONMENT, BUT WHAT ABOU
BUSINESS
>> AND GOING PAST THE RHETORIC
SURROUNDING FOOD STAMPS.
NEXT ON PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS.
THIS IS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND.
>> TONIGHT, WE BEGIN IN EUROPE
MORE SPECIFICALLY IN THA
CONTINENT'S MIGHTIEST ECONOMIC
POWER, GERMANY
IT'S A KEY PLAYER IN THE
EUROPEAN UNION
TOMORROW, GERMAN VOTERS WILL
ELECT A NEW GOVERNMENT
THE OUTCOME OF THE ELECTION WILL
HAVE IMPORTANT IMPLICATIONS FO
THE REST OF THE WORLD, I-TV
REPORTS FROM GERMANY
>> Reporter: THE MOST POWERFUL
ON THE CONTINENT AND A WOMAN
THAT EVEN WHEN CAMPAIGNING FINDS
TIME FOR SHOPPING.
GERMANS LIKE THE COMBINATION
BUT DO THEY LIKE IT ENOUGH T
GIVE HER THE CLEAR MAJORITY SH
WILL NEED TO MAKE TOUG
DECISION
>> Translator: WE MUST SHO
SOLIDARITY
>> EVEN AMONG HER HARDENED
SUPPORTERS THERE'S SKEPTICISM,
THEY FEEL THEY HAVE SHOWN ENOUGH
SOLIDARITY IN REBUILDING THE OLD
EAST GERMANY
AND MUCH STILL NEEDS TO BE DON
THERE.
SHINING NEW INDUSTRIES LIKE THIS
ROLLS-ROYCE AND OTHERS ARE
TAKING ROOT, BUT OTHERS HAVE
BENEFITTED FOR THE GREEKS.
IT ALL MAY EXPLAIN A NEW THING
IN GERMAN POLITICS, A ANTI-EUR
PARTY.
WHO HAVE JUST ENOUGH SUPPORT T
WIN THEM SEATS IN PARLIAMENT
>> THE EURO IS A POLITICAL
DECISION, NOT ANY OTHE
DECISION
WE ARE HOPING THAT THIS MESSAG
WILL BE MAINSTREAM
>> THIS IS MERKEL'S MAIN
CHALLENGE.
STEINBROOK
NOBODY EXPECTS STEINBROOK TO
WIN, BUT HE COULD FORCE HIS WA
IN TO GOVERNMENT AS PART OF TH
GRAND COALITION.
THAT WOULD LEAVE HER STILL I
OFFICE BUT GREATLY WEAKENED AN
LESS ABLE TO MAKE THE TOUGH TH
DECISIONS NEEDED TO SORT OUT THE
EURO ZONE.
IT WILL BE A COALITION RESULT
TWO MAIN PARTS OF RIGHT AND LEFT
MAY JOIN EACH OTHER IN
GOVERNMENT
THE GREAT FEAR IN SOUTHERN
EUROPE IS THAT OF THE END OF I
ALL BERLIN'S POLICY OF AUSTERITY
WITHOUT END IS NOT GOING T
CHANGE
>> ALWAYS A BUDGET DEAL IS
REACHED A GOVERNMENT SHUT DOWN
WILL BE APPROACHING.
IN THE WEEKLY RADIO ADDRESS TH
PRESIDENT SAID THAT THE BILL
PASSED YESTERDAY, TYING TH
BUDGET TO THE DEFUNDING OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT WOULD NO
STAND.
>> THEY WILL PLUNGE THIS COUNTRY
BACK IN TO RECESSION TO DENY THE
BASIC SECURITY OF HEALTH CARE TO
MILLIONS AMERICANS
THAT'S NOT HAPPENING
AND THEY KNOW IT'S NOT
HAPPENING.
>> IN THE REPUBLICAN RESPONS
NEVADA GOVERNOR SAID THAT TH
PRESIDENT NEEDED TO DO A BETTE
JOB OF REACHING OUT TO THE
REPUBLICAN OPPOSITION.
>> GOOD EXECUTIVES, LIKE ALL
GOOD LEADERS EXPECT OPPOSITION
WHEN MAKING DECISIONS OR WHE
MAKING OR ENFORCING THE LAW.
BUT EXECUTIVES MUST ENGAGE THOSE
THAT DISAGREE WITH THEM.
>> THERE'S BEEN MORE GUN
VIOLENCE IN CHICAGO, FOUR PEOPLE
KILLED AND FOUR OTHER WOUNDED IN
A SERIES OF SHOOTINGS THAT BEGAN
LAST EVENING
JUST THE NIGHT BEFORE, 13 PEOPLE
WERE SHOT IN A CHICAGO PARK IN
WHAT POLICE DESCRIBED AS A GAN
RELATED INCIDENT
AMONG THE WOUNDED WAS
3-YEAR-OLD BOY
GUN VOINS IN CHICAGO IS DOWN 20%
IN THE PAST YEAR
FROM COLORADO UPDATED FIGURE
ABOUT THE DAMAGE CAUSED BY THE
MASSIVE FLOODING THE THERE
AUTHORITIES NOW SAY THAT 190
HOMES WERE DESTROYED IN TH
UNDERSTOODS THAT LEFT AT LEAST 7
PEOPLE CONFIRMED DEAD AN
ANOTHER THREE MISSING AN
PRESUMED DEAD AND DOZENS ARE
STILL UNACCOUNTED FOR.
THE FLOODING THAT SPANNED 17
COUNTIES AND NEARLY 2,000 SQUARE
MILES, DAMAGED POWER LINES AND
SWEPT AWAY ROADS AND BRIDGES AND
CAUSED OIL SPILLS.
MORE RAIN IS EXPECTED IN THE
STATE TOMORROW
BACK OVERSEAS, THERE'S BEEN
TERRORIST ATTACK IN THE EAST
AFRICAN NATION OF KENYA.
DOZENS OF SHOPPERS RACED FOR
SAFETY AFTER ARMED MEN SAID TO
BE PART OF THE MILITANT GROU
ATTACKED A UP SCALE SHOPPING
MALL, ONE WITNESS SAID THAT TH
MILITANTS TOLD SHOPPERS THAT
MUSLIMS WERE SAFE AND WOULD BE
ALLOWED TO LEAVE AND NONMUSLIM
WOULD BE TARGETED, THE MALL IS
FREQUENTED BY FOREIGNERS
A CHILDREN'S DAY WAS GOING O
WHEN THEY STRUCK
AND THE UNITED STATES BARELY
AVERTED A NUCLEAR DISASTER I
1951 WHEN A B-52 BOMBER BROKE UP
OVER NORTH CAROLINA AND RELEASED
TWO HYDROGEN BOMBS
THEY NEVER DETONATED
THE REPORT WAS BASED ON A SECRET
DOCUMENT OBTAINED UNDER TH
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
SCIENTISTS SAY THAT EACH OF TH
BOMBS WAS 260 TIMES MORE
POWERFUL THAN THE DEVICE DROPPED
OVER HIROSHIMA
♪ ♪
WORLD LEADERS WILL BE ARRIVING
HERE IN NEW YORK FOR THE START
OF NEXT WEEK'S U.N. GENERA
AASSEMBLY MEETING.
SPECULATION IS RAMPANT THA
PRESIDENT OBAMA WILL MEET WITH
THE NEW PRESIDENT OF IRAN.
YESTERDAY, A DEPUTY NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISER TOLD REPORTERS,
"WE DO BELIEVE THERE'S TIME AN
SPACE FOR DIPLOMACY," SOMETHIN
THE ISRAELI GOVERNMENT I
SKEPTICAL ABOUT.
DAVID, MY FIRST QUESTION IS,
WHAT IS THE STATE OF IRAN'
NUCLEAR PROGRAM TODAY?
>> IRAN'S PROGRAM IS QUITE
ADVANCED
I MEAN, IF THEY DECIDED TODAY TO
MAKE A NUCLEAR WEAPON, IT COUL
PROBABLY DO SO
IT WOULD TAKE MANY MONTHS AND --
AND THEN PROBABLY RUN IN T
PROBLEMS
NOW THAT EFFORT WOULD BE
DETECTED BY THE INSPECTORS THE
WOULD FIRST HAVE TO MAKE WEAPO
GRADE URANIUM AND THEN IT WOUL
TAKE LONG ENOUGH THAT THAT
PRODUCTION WOULD BE DETECTED
LONG BEFORE IT GOES.
AND IN FACT, IT'S THE KEY THIN
RIGHT NOW, IS THAT WE BELIEV
THAT, THAT IRAN COULD MAKE A
NUCLEAR WEAPON, IT'S DETERRE
NOW BECAUSE IT'S FEAR OF THE
MILITARY STRIKES FROM THE UNITED
STATES OR ISRAEL, OR BOTH IF
THEY TOOK STEPS TO MAKE A BOMB
>> IF THEY CAN MAKE A BOMB, CA
THEY DELIVER IT?
>> THAT IS TRICKIER.
THERE'S NOT A LOT OF
INFORMATION.
THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC AGENC
INSPECTORS HAVE PUBLISHE
INFORMATION SUGGESTING THAT IRAN
KNOWS HOW TO MAKE A CRUD
NUCLEAR EXPLOSIVE, AND IT MA
NOT HAVE LEARNED ENOUGH TO MAK
A WEAPON THAT WAS DELIVERED BY
MISSILE AND THEY MAY NEE
CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT OF TIME, A
YEAR, TWO YEARS MORE TO MASTER
THE PROCESS.
IF IRAN DID DECIDE TO MAKE A
BOMB, THEN IT COULD DO SO, OR IT
DO DELIVER THAT BY TRUCK, OR
PLANE.
BUT UNLIKELY TO BE DELIVERABLE
BY MISSILE UNLESS IT TAKES THA
ADDITIONAL YEAR OR SO TO MASTE
THE WARHEAD TECHNOLOGY
>> IN AN OP-ED THE IRANIAN
PRESIDENT SAID IN THE WASHINGTON
POST, THEY SAID THIS PURSUIT FOR
NUCLEAR IS ONLY FOR ENERGY, IS
THAT SOMETHING THAT IS TRUE?
>> THEY CAN PRODUCE IT FOR
ENERGY
BUT THE QUESTION IS, WHY DO THEY
NEED ALL THE OTHER FACILITIE
THAT ENRICH URANIUM, A REACTOR
THAT LOOKS MORE DESIGNED TO MIKE
-- TO MAKE PLUTONIUM
THERE'S A LOT OF QUESTIONS AND A
LOT OF EVIDENCE THAT IRAN DI
SEEK NUCLEAR WEAPONS
THE U.S. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY,
WAS JUDGED WITH HIGH CONFIDENC
THAT PRIOR TO 2004, THAT IRA
HAD A NUCLEAR WEAPONS PROGRAM.
THAT IS SHARED BY BRITAIN,
FRANCE AND GERMANY AND ISRAEL,
THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC AGENC
HAS ADDITIONAL EVIDENC
SUGGESTING THAT IRAN'S WORK ON
THE WEAPONS CONTINUED AFTER 2000
AND THREE, SO, THERE'S EVIDENC
THAT IRAN HAS WORKED A GREAT
DEAL ON NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND THAT
IT -- WHEN IT SAYS IT NEVER DID,
IT IS SIMPLY NOT TELLING THE
TRUTH.
THERE'S A LOT OF SUSPICION THA
THEY WILL TRY TO DO IT AGAIN I
THE FUTURE
>> IS THIS THE WINDOW OF TIM
FOR THEM
>> I THINK THERE'S TIME FO
DIPLOMACY, BUT, IRAN HAS TO STOP
INCREASING ITS CAPABILITIES,
PARTICULARLY THE NUMBER OF GAS
CENTRIFUGES, IT'S INSTALLING
THEM AT A RAPID RATE AND AT SOME
POINT NEXT YEAR, AT ISSIS IS, WE
HAVE ASSESSED THAT BY MID 2014
THEY WOULD REACH APPEA
CAPABILITY, IF NOT STOPPED, THEY
COULD BREAK OUT AND MAKE ENOUG
WEAPON-GRADE URANIUM FOR A BOM
AND IT LIKELY WOULD NOT BE
DETECTED BY THE INSPECTORS O
WESTERN INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME
>> THANK YOU
>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATUR
SEGMENT, IN DEPTH REPORTS FROM
UNDER REPORTED STORIES FRO
AROUND THE NATION AND AROUND THE
WORLD.
IT'S NO SECRET THAT AMERICA'
INFRASTRUCTURE IS AGING AN
MONEY TO FIX IT IS IN SHOR
SUPPLY
WHAT YOU MAY NOT KNOW IS THA
AMERICA'S NEW FASCINATION WITH
FUEL EFFICIENT, HYBRID AND
ELECTRIC CARS MEANS THERE IS
LESS TO SPEND FOR ROAD REPAIRS
TONIGHT WE EXAMINE A
EXPERIMENTAL PROGRAM IN OREGON
THAT REPORTS TO PAVE THE WAY FOR
A SOLUTION
>> PORTLAND, OREGON IS AT TH
VANGUARD AT THE WAR TO REDUC
GASOLINE CONASSUMING
YOU CAN FIND EVIDENCE ALL OVER
THE DOWNTOWN AREA AND IN THE CAR
DEALERSHIPS.
>> WE ARE LOOKING AT HYBRIDS
PLUG IN HYBRIDS, ELECTRIC CARS
THERE'S SOME HYPER EFFICIENT
DIESEL ENGINES IN THE WORKS.
THEY HAVE BEEN MORE ENTHUSIASTIC
ABOUT GREEN CARS THAN ANYWHERE
ELSE IN THE COUNTRY, BUT THE
REST OF THE COUNTRY IS CATCHIN
UP AND OVER THE NEXT TEN YEARS
EVERY CAR WILL BE MORE FUE
EFFICIENT, THANKS TO A DEAL THAT
WAS STRUCK WITH BY THE PRESIDENT
WITH THE CAR COMPANIES
>> THEY WILL INCREASE TH
MILEAGE ON THE CARS AN
INSTRUCTIONS OVER THE NEXT TEN
YEARS.
>> THE MILEAGE WILL INCREASE
2/3, TO NEARLY 55 MPG, MEANING
THAT AMERICANS WILL BE CUTTING
BACK ON PURCHASES AT THE PUMP.
THAT IS WHERE THE BAD NEWS
STARTS
BY DEFINITION, MORE EFFICIEN
CARS USE LESS GAS AND THAT MEANS
LESS GAS TAXES FOR STATE AND
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS.
THOSE GAS TAXES.
A FEDERAL LEVY OF $.18 A GALLON.
THEY PAY TO MAINTAIN THE
HIGHWAYS AND BRIDGES ACROSS TH
COUNTRY.
AND THAT IS ALREADY A HUGE
PROBLEM.
>> WE BEGIN TONIGHT WITH THA
TERRIFYING BRIDGE COLLAPSE
>> TAKE THE EXAMPLE OF THE NEW
THAT BROKE IN MAY, WHEN AN
INTERSTATE-5 BRIDGE COLLAPSED
COUPLE HUNDRED MILES NORTH O
PORTLAND
BY NEXT YEAR, THE FELL HIGHWAY
TRUST FUND, THE SOURCE OF ALL OF
THE FUNDING FOR BRIDGES AN
ROADS THAT COMES FROM FROM
WASHINGTON WILL GO BUST.
>> THE BOTTOM LINE IS WE ARE I
A DOWNWARD SPIRAL.
WHAT IT MEAN IS THE FEDERA
GOVERNMENT IS NOT GOING TO B
ABLE TO HELP STATES AND LOCALITY
MAINTAIN WHAT THEY HAVE GOT.
IT MEANS THAT PEOPLE WILL PA
WITH LESS SAFE DRIVING
CONDITIONS
>> DOES THE GAS GENERATE ENOUG
REVENUE TO MAINTAIN THE ROADS?
>> NO.
JUST PLAIN NO.
>> VICKI BURGER IS A REPUBLICA
MEMBER OF THE OREGON HOUSE
SHE SAID THAT AS THE STATE
RESIDENTS BUY MORE EFFICIENT
CARS AND LESS GAS, THE BUDGE
CRUNCH IS ONLY GOING GET WORSE
BUT SHE THINKS THERE MAY BE
SOLUTION
INSTEAD OF HAVING OREGON
MOTORISTS PAY A $.30 TAX O
EVERY GALLON, HAVE THEM PAY
FEE, A PENNY OR TWO ON EVERY
MILE THEY DRIVE.
IT'S CALLED A VMT FEE.
OREGON WAS THE FIRST STATE I
THE UNION TO IMPOSE A GAS TAX
CENTURY AGO AND IT SET UP AN
EXPERIMENT TO SEE IF IT CAN LEAD
THE NATION AGAIN
>> 300 VOLUNTEERS LET THE STAT
HOOK UP TRANSMITTERS AND
COMPUTERS TO THEIR CAR, SO THE
MILEAGE IN OREGON COULD BE
TRACKED WITH A GPS
>> THE TECHNOLOGY WORKED JUS
FINE, BUT CIVIL LIBERTY AN
PRIVACY ADVOCATES FELT IT WOUL
GIVE BIG BROTHER AN OPPORTUNIT
TO SNOOP ON PRIVATE CITIZENS
SO IT FADED OUT OF VIEW.
UNTIL THE OREGON DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION RAN A NEW
EXPERIMENT LATE LAST YEAR.
THIS TIME, PARTICIPANTS HAD
RANGE OF CHOICES
THEY COULD LET SMARTPHONES TRACK
THEIR MOVEMENTS OR HAVE GPS THAT
SENT DATA TO AFFIRM INSTEAD OF
THE GOVERNMENT OR HAD A DEVICE
THAT RECORDED HOW MANY MILES
THEY DROVE, NOT WHERE THEY
DROVE.
THAT IS WHAT VICKI BURGE
DECIDED TO HAVE.
>> FROM A TAX POLICY POINT O
VIEW, THIS WAS REALL
INTERESTING TO ME, BECAUSE WHE
I GO TO THE PUMP, I'M FILLING MY
CAR WITH GAS, I'M NOT THINKING
OF THE TAXES I'M PAYING, I'M
PAYING FEDERAL AND STATE
WHEN YOU GET A BILL IN THE MAIL,
YOU THINK OF THE TAXES YOU PAY
AND THAT SORT OF AWAKENS THI
SENSE OF OH, I'M PAYING A TA
HERE FOR THE PRIVILEGE OF USIN
THE ROADS.
WHICH, I DON'T THINK PEOPL
THINK ABOUT WHEN THEY JUST FIL
THEIR TANK
>> BUT SKEPTICS THINK THAT
ADMINISTERING A PROGRAM LIKE
THAT COULD BE A MESS AND TAXIN
FUEL EFFICIENT CARS SENDS AN
ANTI-GREEN MESSAGE
TAXING HYBRIDS MORE THAN
HUMMERS.
>> WE ARE REDUCING THE INCENTIVE
TO SHIFT TO GREEN CARS
>> HE IS A POLITICAL CONSULTANT.
>> THIS IS A TAX THAT HITS PLU
INS AND HYBRID CARS, AND WE AR
REDUCING THAT INCENTIVE.
>> THE HIGHWAY TRUST FUND IS
NEARLY BROKE AND THE AMOUN
GATHERED FROM THE TAXES IS GOING
DOWN
WHAT IS THE ALTERNATIVE?
>> FIRST THING I WOULD DO IS
RAISE THE GAS TAX AND INDEX IT
TO INFLATION OVER TIME
>> IN OTHER WORDS, THE GAS TAX
WOULD AUTOMATICALLY RISE AT TH
RATE OF INFLATION.
SUPPORTERS OF MILEAGE FEES ARGUE
THAT LEGISLATORS ELECTRIC TH
POLITICAL WILL TO RAISE GA
TAXES SO THEY SAY STATE AN
FEDERAL GOVERNMENTS NEED ANOTHER
PLAN TO PAY FOR CRITICAL REPAIRS
TO ROADS AND BRIDGES
LAST MONTH, OREGON PASSED A LA
EXPANDING THE MILEAGE FEE IN
2015, THIS TIME TO 5,000
VEHICLES
MEANWHILE, THE U.S
REPRESENTATIVE IS LOOKING FOR
REPUBLICAN CO-SPONSOR THAT COULD
TEST THE FEES NATIONALLY
I WANT TO TAKE THAT OREGON
EXPERIENCE AND MOVE IT TO TH
NATIONAL LEVEL
WHERE STATES CAN APPLY TO TEST
IT IN THEIR OWN LOCATION
SO THAT, ROAD USERS CA
UNDERSTAND HOW IT WORKS, WHA
THE ADVANTAGES ARE AND MAKE IT
LESS OF A MYSTERY.
THE IDEA IS TO BE ABLE T
ENCOURAGE OTHER TATES TO
INNOVATE
-- OTHER STATES TO INNOVATE.
DON'T FORGET TO JOIN US ONLINE
FOR ANCHOR HOURS WHERE WE WITH
TAKE YOUR QUESTIONS BEFORE THE
BROADCAST.
THIS WEEK, A FEW OF YOU ASKE
WHETHER PARTICIPANTS IN OREGON'S
PILOT PROGRAM TO CHARGE DRIVER
FOR EVERY MILE DRIVEN, IF THEY
WERE DOUBLE TAXED.
AT THE END OF THE MONTH, THE
DRIVERS ARE GETTING A CREDIT FOR
THE GAS TAX THEY PAID AT THE
PUMP
THANKS TO YOUR QUESTIONS, WE
HAVE AN EXPLAINER ONLINE ABOUT
HOW THE OREGON DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION DOES THE MATH
♪ ♪
THIS WEEK, THE HOUSE O
REPRESENTATIVES NARROWLY PASSE
THE BILL THAT WOULD CUT TH
FEDERAL FOOD STAMP PROGRAM B
ROUGHLY $40 MILLION.
RIGHT NOW, A RECORD 47 MILLION
MORNS RECEIVED FOOD STAMPS A
THESE NUMBERS HAVE GROWN, SO TOO
HAS THE COST OF THE PROGRAM.
IT NOW EXCEEDS $78 BILLION A
YEAR TO HELP US UNDERSTAND WHA
THE CURRENT CLASH ABOUT FOOD
STAMPS IS ALL ABOUT IS DAMIA
FROM THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL"
JOINING US FROM WASHINGTON, D.C.
DEMOCRATS SAY THAT THE FACT THAT
1 IN 7 AMERICANS QUALIFIES FOR
THE PROGRAM IS PROOF THAT IT
SHOULD NOT BE CUT.
WHAT WOULD THE GOP LIKE TO SEE
CHANGED?
>> THE REPUBLICANS ARE RAISING
THE QUESTION, IF THE STOCK
MARKET IS AT RECORD HIGHS AN
THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IS COMIN
DOWN, WHY ARE WE SEEING MORE AND
MORE PEOPLE SIGNING UP FOR THE
FOOD STAMP PROGRAM AND IT'S TRUE
IN THE PAST DECADE, THE NUMBER
OF PEOPLE IN THE PROGRAM HAS
DOUBLED.
THEY ARE ASKING WHY THAT THAT IS
TAKEN PLACE AND THEY ARE PUTTING
CONTROLS IN PLACE THAT SAY, WILL
HELP MOVE PEOPLE OUT OF TH
PROGRAM IN TO WELL PAYING JOBS
OR MOVE PEOPLE OUT OF TH
PROGRAM THAT THEY FEEL SHOUL
NOT HAVE QUALIFIED IN THE FIRS
PLACE.
>> WHAT ARE THE CONTROLS THA
THEY WANT TO PUT IN PLACE?
>> WORK REQUIREMENTS FOR PEOPL
THAT ARE RECEIVING FOOD STAMPS
THEY DON'T HAVE KIDS AND THE
WANT TO ROLL BACK RULES, THE
STATES, MANY STATES IN THE PAS
DECADES HAVE MADE IT EASIER TO
QUALIFY OR WAVE INCOME AND ASSET
TESTS.
YOU KNOW, YOU COULD HAVE $10,000
IN THE BANK THAT YOU ARE SAVIN
FOR YOUR KID'S COLLEGE EDUCATION
AND STILL QUALIFY FOR FOOD
STAMPS
REPUBLICANS WANT TO ROLL THA
BACK SAYING IF YOU HAVE MONE
SAVED YOU SHOULD USE THAT MONE
FOR FOOD AND THINGS LIKE NOW
>> CRITICS REPEATEDL
HIGHLIGHTED AN UNEMPLOYED SURFER
IN CALIFORNIA USING FOOD STAMP
TO BUY SUSHI AND LOBSTER
>> I HAVE THE RAINBOW ROLL
MAHI, EEL, THEY HAD LOBSTER ON
SPECIAL.
>> IT PROVES THAT BENEFITS, THEY
SAY, THAT IT GOES TO THOSE THA
DID NOT NEED THEM.
>> MY EXPERIENCE IS, AND I HAV
TALKED TO A LOT OF PEOPLE THAT
RECEIVE FOOD STAMPS.
THE VAST MAJORITY OF PEOPLE THAT
RECEIVE FOOD STAMPS ARE IN TOUGH
SITUATIONS
SOME OF THEM ARE GENERATIONA
POVERTY.
THEY RECEIVED FOOD STAMPS WHEN
THEY WERE CHILDREN AND THEY HAVE
THEM NOW AND THERE ARE OTHER
THAT LOST THEIR JOBS AND AND ARE
STUNNED THEY ARE IN THIS
SITUATION.
THERE'S GOING TO BE FRAUD AN
ABUSE AND SELECT EXAMPLES THAT
MAKE PEOPLE SCRATCH THEIR HEAD
AND WONDER WHY, THERE'S A LOT OF
PEOPLE, FOR EXAMPLE, FOR THE
REALLY POOR, IT'S A TYPE O
CURRENCY
AND YOU CAN SEE PEOPLE, THEY
WILL GO, MAYBE BUY, THEY WILL GO
BUY THE STORE, WITH THEIR FOOD
STAMPS, SOMETHING FOR SOMEBODY
ELSE IN EXCHANGE FOR CASH.
IT'S HARD TO POLICE.
THAT DOES HAPPEN
>> THE GOVERNMENT SAID THERE'S A
1% FRAUD RATE IN THE FOOD STAM
PROGRAM, BUT EVEN THAT IS $750
MILLION A YEAR
HOW SIGNIFICANT A PROBLEM IS
FRAUD?
>> IT'S A SIGNIFICANT PROBLEM.
AND QUITE FRANKLY, 1%, IT'
TOUGH TO TELL HOW MUCH EXISTS.
IT HAPPENS ONE, THE RECIPIENTS
COULD BE ABUSING AND BIG AND
SMALL BUSINESSES COULD B
ABUSING THE PROGRAM AS WELL.
THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTUR
THAT RUNS THE PROGRAM IS TRYIN
TO STAY ON TOP OF THIS BUT THE
RESOURCES AND DEPARTMENT IS SO
LARGE, THAT THEY ARE NOT ABLE TO
DO AS MUCH AS THEY WOULD LIKE TO
DO
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH
>> MY PLEASURE
>> THIS IS PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND
SATURDAY
>> FINALLY THE CONNECTION.
POLITICIANS AND FOREIGN LEADER
CAMPAIGNING FOR HEARTS AND MINDS
IN OTHER COUNTRIES
THIS WEEK, SENATOR McCAIN TOOK
VLADIMIR PUTIN
OP-ED AFTER PUTIN’S EDITORIA
QUESTIONING AMERICAN EXCEPTIONAL
IN THE NEW YORK TIMES
WHY?
>> THESE THINGS ARE CAREFULL
CRAFTED.
SOMETIMES, I GUESS, BY THE HEADS
OF STATE THEMSELVES BUT ALSO B
THEIR AIDS AND THEN BY THEIR P
COMPANIES THAT THEY RETAIN FOR
ENORMOUS AMOUNTS OF MONEY.
>> OF COURSE, THEY SAY, THE RARE
EXPRESSIONS SELL PAPERS.
>> I THINK IT ATTRACTS A LOT O
ATTENTION TO THE PUBLICATION
AND THEY ALL LIKE IT
>> IF A PICTURE IS WORTH A
THOUSAND WORDS THAN BIG TIME
BROADCASTS AND NEWS INTERVIEWS
ARE PRICELESS.
FOREIGN LEADERS CHOOSE THE
PERSON INTERVIEWING THEM
CAREFULLY.
>> AFTER CONDUCTING A CHEMICAL
THE SYRIAN PRESIDENT ATTACK SAT
WITH CHARLIE ROSE AND THEN
UP ON FOX NEWS
>> IN EVERY HOUSE, YOU HAVE PAIN
TODAY.
IN EVERY HOUSE, YOU HAVE
SADNESS.
>> THIS PAST WEDNESDAY, TH
IRANIAN PRESIDENT SAT DOWN WIT
ANN CURRY.
>> WE HAVE CLEARLY STATED THAT
WE ARE NOT IN PURSUIT OF NUCLEAR
WEAPONS AND WILL NOT BE.
>> DOES THIS STYLE OF RETAIL
DIPLOMACY ASSUME THAT MASS
AUDIENCES ARE BRIGHT ENOUGH TO
FIGURE IT OUT FOR THEMSELVES O
DIM ENOUGH TO BE FOOLED.
JOIN US TOMORROW ON AIR AN
ONLINE
THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE LIVIN
ALONE IN THE U.S. HAS INCREASE
DRAMATICALLY
WE WILL SHOW YOU HOW MICRO
APARTMENTS CREATE LIVEABLE
SPACES FOR SOME OF THEM.
>> WE ARE STANDING IN EVER
ROOM
WE ARE STANDING IN MY KITCHEN,
DINING ROOM, LIVING ROOM
BEDROOM AND MY BATHROOM IS JUS
AROUND THE CORNER.
>> RECAPPING TODAY'S TOP STORY
VOTERS IN GERMANY ARE PREPARIN
TO ELECT A NEW GOVERNMENT.
THAT IS IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND.
THANK YOU FOR WATCHING